i am in rotation d which starts off with
anesthesia ophthalmology emergency
medicine
in the medical profession there is no
bias
more fundamental and more widespread
than the belief doctors have in the
medical profession itself
racism matters the history of
colonialism
matters but doctors above all else
want to believe that whatever problem
they are presented with
is a problem that they as a doctor can
solve
and this leads to absurdities doctors
apparently think that they can address
and solve
poverty racism colonialism mental health
problems
people's lack of motivation and then on
the other hand we also have to deal with
the
underlying bias that doctors want to
take
every problem and transform it into
something they can address and solve
through
surgery the most flattering thing i can
say
about this new peer-reviewed article
that puts itself forward as a new set of
guidelines for medical professionals to
follow
and for the government to follow the
most flattering thing i can say
about this report is that it argues
that the canadian medical system is
terrible
which is a refreshing voice of dissent
in a world where everyone including
bernie sanders
is always saying how wonderful canada's
health care system is
this contains a very worrying warning
that not only is the canadian medical
system too slow
and too inefficient it's also too
expensive
apparently it's incredibly expensive in
canada for people to get access to
weight loss
drugs and to weight loss surgery which
basically is here referring to
bariatric surgery gastric bypass surgery
they report that people have waited for
eight years
to get this surgery in canada so this
article points the finger at
crucial crucial shortfalls
crucial shortages crucial problems
in the canadian medical system but that
is not
at all the message that the mainstream
media
took from the article instead as always
stumbling and fumbling in the darkness
they managed to make this into a very
different kind
of propaganda latching on to the
ostentatiously woke
and politically correct elements but
again here
the most fundamental bias of all
is the belief in the medical profession
itself
this isn't racism we're dealing with
this isn't colonialism it's
medicalism what are the authors of this
report fundamentally interested in
they're interested in advocating for
bariatric surgery
pharmacotherapy
which means prescribing drugs like
uh naltrexone yeah i rarely say that
word out loud
they want to treat obesity by handing
out this kind of prescription medication
and by getting more
people into have surgery what they don't
want to do
is talk about weight loss being
something that can be achieved through
improvements in diet and willpower so
the whole report
is very much condemning the notion that
obesity is just a problem you can solve
through diet exercise
and effort sign up for surgery sign up
for drugs and complain that the
government needs to put more money
into providing surgery and drugs now i
am not going to claim
that the surgery and the drugs have zero
positive effect i'm not going to claim
that i'm going to warn that if you just
look up the side effects
of uh the drugs that are listed here
under pharmacotherapy if you
look up what the chemical effects of
these drugs really
are there's something very important to
think about there in terms of weighing
the benefit versus the harm
new guidelines out today are calling for
a dramatic shift in how obesity is
viewed in canada
and they urge doctors to look at the
root causes of obesity
not just a focus on weight loss alone
sincerely or
insincerely the journalists are
manufacturing enthusiasm for this notion
that obesity is not just about
diet it's about your mental health
and it's about your social media and
that's that's the part of the equation
that gets us into
racism and anti-racism and left-wing
wokeness
so on and so forth the very simple very
fundamental question i have to ask here
is
even if you are obese because of
emotional problems what can a medical
doctor
do about it if you are obese because
of poverty what can your medical doctor
do about it because of your social media
perhaps indeed because of racism and
systemic racism both of which are
referred to repeatedly
in this peer-reviewed medical journal
report
your medical doctor probably cannot
even have an intelligent conversation
with you about your
lifelong experiences of racism
poverty having lousy parents
i mean even the conversation about
racism is not a conversation you would
want to have
with your medical doctor but if you
could have that conversation with your
medical doctor
what good could it possibly do
either one of you if you go to the
doctor because you
are afraid of having a heart attack or
you have high blood pressure
do you really want to sit down with that
doctor and talk about your so-called
social media talk about racism
talk about oppression talk about your
economic struggles with poverty
knowing that your doctor is not going to
lift a finger
to actually help you they're not going
to help you deal with poverty
they're not going to help you improve
your economic circumstances
or your family circumstances they're not
even going to advise you to get a
divorce
if the reason why you're miserable and
poor and overweight is because you have
a lousy marriage
absolutely no good can come of it
so i really have to fundamentally ask is
it wise
to advise doctors and the government and
members of the public
to drag this part of the medical system
into pretending
it has the solutions for these political
problems
what it calls psychosocial problems
the advice comes from obesity canada and
the canadian association of bariatric
physicians and
surgeons some of the factors the experts
say need to be considered are genetics
and biology
trauma and mental health issues can also
be factors in
excess weight the importance of the
racism
issue isn't just shown by how much space
it takes up in this medical report
but also by its intentional omission
from what many of the journalists have
said about
this report in the report the question
of racism of white people against
indigenous
people native people american indians
whatever you want to say
first nations the creed the ojibwe the
inuit
that's a huge issue in this report and
the
news broadcast i just quoted from you
which is the official
government of canada news broadcast the
cbc
taxpayer supported it just
omits to mention this issue of racism
entirely and many many of the
journalists
writing for different newspapers either
choose to not
mention this at all or summarize it
and allude to it in the most vague
and woke manner possible like helping
native people
overcome their barriers it's a big issue
it's a huge issue it's explosive
and you know what the worst people in
the world to deal with it
are medical doctors medical doctors
are not equipped to even have
a casual conversation about these issues
i don't think doctors can
do this i'm not questioning whether or
not
they should really think through the
first point on this list
what would it mean for your doctor to
try to
engage with your social realities
you come into the doctor's office
because you're overweight
you have hypertension you're worried
about a heart attack or you just have
difficulty walking up and down stairs
because you're too
fat and the doctor tries to quote
unquote
engage with your social reality the
doctor tries to
validate your experience of systemic
racism
how is a white medical doctor who grew
up in thunder bay ontario
and then joined the most privileged
wealthy
class of the canadian working public
by studying biochemistry how is he
equipped to deal with this
and let's keep in mind a very
significant percentage of our medical
doctors in canada
aren't even white people who grew up in
canada they're from pakistan
or india or the arab world the middle
east
we have so many doctors from all around
the world who are just
unbelievably poorly equipped
intellectually emotionally or
even in terms of just raw book learning
to even attempt to do this and i think
if they did attempt it
it would at best result in embarrassment
for all parties
underlined and read here again strive to
build relationships
that incorporate healing from
multi-generational trauma do you even
want your doctor
to try to do that for you doctors are
advised to
build their own knowledge regarding the
health legacy of colonization
it's so hard to get students who are
majors
in political science to care about this
stuff it's so hard to get
anyone to care about this stuff
conversely if this
could be made to happen who would be
equipped to do it who would best be able
to do it
we would never expect medical doctors to
do this
i think you can pause and reflect that
in the united states and canada
there's nobody who can do this political
science majors can't do this history
majors can't do this
indigenous study majors can't do this
there is actually no profession there is
no area of expertise there is nothing
you can study at any university that
will prepare you to play the role that's
being described in this report
in terms of healing the wounds of
genocidal colonial history
maybe there is something really
important for us to think about there
but it's mind-blowing to think that this
has come up in a report
giving you guidelines on how to treat
obesity
in a general practitioner's office in
politics
we often have to talk about the public
perception
of a problem as something quite
separate from the problem itself
the public perception of obesity
weight loss and the role of the medical
system
role of medical doctors this is a very
important problem
unto itself in the year 2020
headline obesity not defined by one's
weight or
size new guidelines say according to
arya sharma
scientific director of obesity canada
it's just a very very simple question
and that is does this person's body fat
or excess body fat
affect their health if it does we've got
obesity
if it doesn't we just have a large
person with a lot of body fat
ian patton one of the authors at obesity
canada
has encountered his fair share of weight
discrimination
despite excelling in sports he was
bullied for his size while growing up
obesity did not become a health issue
for him
until he approached his 30s
i'm i'm sorry i'm sorry so you mean when
he was in his 20s
perhaps you mean in his late 20s he he
didn't have any health problems until
27 28 oh oh
so it was quite wrong for people to
advise him to lose weight
earlier in life given that he never
developed complications he never
developed health
problems due to obesity until he
approached his 30s well
strong strong argument when she
approached his 30s he struggled with
hypertension
and severe sleep apnea he lacked energy
and had constant pain
and was always out of breath well gee it
certainly would be misguided
for health professionals to intervene
and tell him to lose weight when he was
a teenager or in his early 20s
back when he was excelling in sports
certainly certainly there's there's no
reason to worry until after
your excess body fat is causing health
problems that's the thesis
of this newspaper article this newspaper
allegedly
reaches an audience of 6.5 million
people
in a country that has only 37 or 38
million
people in total i'm very skeptical about
that number 6.5 million
you should be skeptical too but
nevertheless we have here the
presentation
of you know a very dubious narrative
dripping with scientism it presents
itself
cloaked in scientific certainty and it
tells people
something they may be inclined to
believe
new clinical guidelines for obesity
focus on health
rather than just a number on the scale
weight management is not about using
willpower and just trying to find the
best diet
so this this quotation is accurately
reflecting what the
the actual peer-reviewed article says
the peer-reviewed article emphasizes
that it's totally wrong to view
weight loss in terms of
willpower and diet that's wrong wrong
wrong we should instead
regard this as a chronic disease tell me
something
can you name another chronic disease
that can be cured simply by
willpower and improved diet can you name
another chronic disease that routinely
is cured by willpower and an improved
diet there are many many diseases there
are many many
injuries that you are powerless to cure
yourself
through willpower and improved diet i
think it is incredibly important
for that peer-reviewed scientific study
and for government guidelines and for
newspapers to say the exact
opposite of what's being said here that
yes
obesity although it's a very very
serious health problem
it's one of those rare health problems
you can solve yourself
with willpower and improve diet not by
using say
medications that have very very serious
side effects and very very dubious
health benefits all right but we
continue here weight management
is a chronic medical condition and as a
medical disease
we need to use a medical treatment model
yes isn't that convenient
for people whose lives revolve around
surgery
and so-called pharmacotherapy
wharton said the new canadian guidelines
may be among the first in the world to
emphasize
medical nutrition therapy rather than
diet
oh that was the problem we're gonna stop
recommending diet and we're gonna start
recommending
medical nutrition therapy right and and
you know the word diet
the problem with that is that it's a
word that comes with potential
negative connotations well that'll
that'll solve the problem
right okay point taken they also call
for compassion and empathy
and to consider the patient's goals for
their health weight loss
is a difficult issue to talk about
poverty
and racism are difficult issues
to talk about and it's no doubt true
that some people
who are struggling to lose weight are
also struggling with
poverty and the disadvantages of living
in a country that is
uniquely racist against them i.e
our indigenous people in canada the
creed the ojibwe the mohawk
so on and so forth these are huge huge
difficult
issues to deal with
and i think that probably some of the
authors of this report
really wanted to talk about those issues
honestly
but what we end up with is another
paralyzing examination of how political
correctness
and wokeness ends up with people
not being able to discuss these issues
at all and not being able to really take
action at all again the most
fundamental bias throughout this report
it's not racism it's medicalism it's
that by
medicalizing this issue we can solve it
and you know what the truth is the
solution to the problem of poverty
the solution to the problem of racism
the solution to the problem of so-called
mental health and 99
of the solution to the problem of weight
loss is
outside the bounds of is beyond
the limits of what the medical
profession
can or should do